.\" vim: ft=groff tw=72
.TH "TMISPELL" "1" "2006-07-30"
.SH NAME
\%tmispell \- \%ispell wrapper which uses Voikko for spell-checking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \%tmispell
.RB [ -F
.IR config_file ]
.RI [ ispell_options ]
.RI [ file " ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B \%Tmispell
is an
.BR \%ispell (1)
wrapper which uses Voikko spell-checking system to do the actual
spell-checking for Finnish language.
.PP
What makes
.B \%Tmispell
very useful is that many programs (e.g. email clients and word
processors) use \%Ispell for spell-checking. Since
.B \%Tmispell
is a transparent wrapper for \%Ispell, other programs that would
normally use \%Ispell will automatically use
.B \%Tmispell
(and therefore Voikko) without any changes needed. Additionally,
.B \%Tmispell
is able to launch the real \%Ispell if
.B \%Tmispell
does not support the selected language. It is not necessary to have the
real \%Ispell installed, though. \%Tmispell works fine without it, but
currently Finnish is the only supported language then.
.PP
.B \%Tmispell
can be used from command line exactly like \%Ispell. If
.B \%Tmispell
is correctly installed, the command \%\(lqispell\(rq actually starts
.BR \%Tmispell .
It can be used to spell-check any text
.IR file (s)
given as command line parameter. If a text file is given,
.B \%Tmispell
starts in interactive mode. Press \(lq?\(rq to get help on available
commands in interactive mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -F " \%config_file"
Use the configuration file
.I \%config_file
instead of the default
.IR \%/etc/tmispell.conf .
.TP
.I \%ispell_options
.B \%Tmispell
should understand all the options that \%Ispell does. For more
information about \%Ispell's options, see
.BR \%ispell (1).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I \%/etc/tmispell.conf
The default configuration file for
.BR \%Tmispell .
For more information, see
.BR \%tmispell.conf (5).
.SH BUGS
In interactive mode UTF-8 multibyte characters are not handled
correctly.
.SH AUTHORS
The original
.B \%Tmispell
was programmed by Pau\%li Vir\%ta\%nen \%<pauli.virtanen@hut.fi>.
.br
Modifications and integration with Voikko spell-checking system by
Har\%ri Pit\%k\(:a\%nen \%<hatapitk@iki.fi>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR \%tmispell.conf (5),
.BR \%ispell (1)
.PP
Voikko homepage: \%http://voikko.sourceforge.net/
