.TH "TMISPELL.CONF" "5" "2006-07-30"
.SH NAME
tmispell.conf \- configuration file for tmispell
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page describes the configuration file for
.BR tmispell (1).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/tmispell.conf
The configuration file that contains spell-checker entries and options.
.PP
.B "Syntax of configuration file"
.RS
.PP
.IR option = value
.PP
The
.I value
string, if enclosed between quotes, may span multiple lines; \(lq#\(rq
is a comment character and everything on a line after it is ignored.
.RE
.PP
.B Options
.RS
.TP
.I ispell
The location of the Ispell executable to be called as a fall-back. The
full path to the Ispell executable must be given. This option is
mandatory.
.TP
.I tex-command-filter
A list of TeX commands and their parameter lists to use when
filtering TeX input. The syntax is
.RB \(lq "cmdname oOpP" ", ...\(rq,"
where
.B oOpP
is a string of characters denoting the type of command's parameters.
Uppercase letter means that a parameter should be spell-checked,
lowercase that it should not.
.B O
and
.B o
denote optional parameters,
.B P
and
.B p
normal parameters.
.TP
.I tex-environment-filter
A list of environments to skip when filtering TeX input.
.TP
.I sgml-attributes-to-check
A list of SGML or HTML tag attributes to spell-check.
.PP
The spell-checker module specification consists of seven strings on the same
line, separated by whitespace(s) (i.e. space or tab) and possibly
enclosed in double (") or single (\(aq) quotes. Backslash (\e) can be
used to escape quote characters inside quotes. The meanings of the
strings are:
.RS 3
.IP "1." 4
The name by which the dictionary is known, similar to the name of an
Ispell hash file name without the extension
.IR .hash .
This is mandatory.
.IP "2." 4
The file name of the library file to load. This is mandatory.
.IP "3." 4
The file name of the dictionary file that the library uses. This is
mandatory.
.IP "4." 4
The input encoding this module uses (e.g. UTF-8). This is mandatory.
.IP "5." 4
The value of the locale variable
.B LC_CTYPE
that should be used with this module. This determines the default set of
characters that are considered to belong to a word. If empty or not
given, the value of a suitable environment variable is used.
.IP "6." 4
The set of additional word characters not specified by the locale. If
not given, no additional word characters are assumed.
.IP "7." 4
The set of word boundary characters. They are considered to be a part of
a word only when occurring inside one. If not given, no boundary
characters are assumed.
.RE
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B Example configuration file
.RS
ispell=/usr/bin/ispell.real
.br
suomi "/usr/lib/libvoikko.so.1" "/dev/null" "UTF-8" "fi_FI.UTF-8" ".-" "\(aq:"
.br
tex-command-filter="begin po, end p, usepackage op, newcommand poOP"
.br
tex-environment-filter="equation $ eqnarray displaymath math"
.RE
.PP
The first line specifies the location of the fall-back ispell program to
use.
.PP
The second line defines spell-checking settings for Finnish language.
Language is identified by the name \(lqsuomi\(rq and it uses
.I /usr/lib/libvoikko.so.1
library for spell-checking. Separate dictionary file is not needed with
Voikko so it is set to /dev/null. The input encoding to use is UTF-8.
Only the letters specified by the locale fi_FI.UTF-8 as well as period
(.) and dash (-) are considered as word characters. Boundary characters
are ASCII apostrophe (\(aq) and colon (:).
.PP
Every time
.B Tmispell
is invoked with \(lq-d suomi\(rq or \(lq-d
.IR /usr/lib/ispell/suomi.hash \(rq
as arguments, the Voikko spell-checking system
.RI ( /usr/lib/libvoikko.so.1 )
is used for spell-checking. Otherwise the real Ispell is started.
.PP
The third line specifies that in TeX filter mode the parameters to
commands begin{}, end{} and usepackage{} should not be spell-checked,
whereas the second optional and second obligatory parameters to
\(lqnewcommand\(rq should.
.PP
The fourth line specifies that in TeX filter mode no math environment
should be spell-checked.
.SH AUTHORS
The original
.B Tmispell
was programmed by Pauli Virtanen <pauli.virtanen@hut.fi>
.br
Modifications and integration with Voikko spell-checking system by Harri
Pitk\(:anen <hatapitk@iki.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR tmispell (1),
.BR ispell (1)
.PP
Voikko homepage: http://www.hunspell-fi.org/
\" vim: tw=72
